hey emacs, show me an -*- mode: outline -*-

* Version 0.8, released 2013-01-14

** bug fixes

Stack overflow problems on several implementations have been fixed.
(Thanks to Zach Beane for pointing this out.)

Anton Kovalenko contributed several fixes to the bzip2 code.

Several bugs have been fixed with the Gray streams support.  (Thanks to
Anton Kovalenko and Felix Lange for the fixes and zort on Github for a
bug report.)

Gray streams support works with recent versions of Allegro Common Lisp.
(Thanks to Dave Cooper.)

** improvements

Consing when computing the CRC32 checksum for gzip has been reduced.
(Thanks to Zach Beane for permission to pull his code from Salza.)

MAKE-DECOMPRESSING-STREAM now singals an error if Gray streams are not
supported.  (Thanks to Felix Lange.)

** new features

A new method on DECOMPRESS has been added for decompressing files into
memory.

CLISP now supports decompressing streams.  (Thanks to Felix Lange.)

* Version 0.7.4, released 2009-10-26

** bug fixes

CRC32 checksums are now calculated properly.  (Thanks to Sven Van
Caekenberghe.)

** improvements

READ-SEQUENCE is now supported on Gray streams, which may result in a
significant performance boost.

* Version 0.7.3, released 2009-05-09

** bug fixes

Checksum errors now throw the correct error, rather than complaining
about an unknown checksum-mismatch error.  (Thanks to _3b on #lisp.)

Fixed an error when decompressing raw deflate data.  (Thanks to _3b on
#lisp.)

Fixed an error in rare cases when reading checksums.  (Thanks to _3b on
#lisp.)

* Version 0.7.2, released 2008-12-20

** bug fixes

Gray streams now work correctly.  (Thanks to Austin Haas.)

* Version 0.7.1, released 2008-12-17

** bug fixes

Fixed some errors related to confusion between keywords and CHIPZ
symbols.  (Thanks to Austin Haas and Tomas Zellerin.)

* Version 0.7.0, released 2008-10-24

** new features

bzip2 decompression is now included.  Please see the documentation for
more details.

** improvements

DECOMPRESS now supports the keyword argument :BUFFER-SIZE.  Please see
the documentation for more details.

Checksum verification is now performed for gzip and zlib data.

* Version 0.6.1, released 2008-10-03

** bug fixes

Various fixes have been applied to increase Chipz's portability.
(Thanks to Zach Beane.)

* Version 0.6.0, released 2008-09-27

** new features

Gray streams are now supported on Lispworks, CMUCL, Allegro, and
OpenMCL.

There has been a significant amount of optimization work done on the
library and decompression shows better than order-of-magnitude speedups
on SBCL.

* Version 0.5.1, released 2008-02-09

** bug fixes

DECOMPRESS now handles :INPUT-END properly in all cases.  (Thanks to
Jeremy English.)

* Version 0.5, released 2008-01-02

Completely redid the structure of the library.  The API is now modeled
after that of `zlib', with convenience functions added.

Gray streams interfaces added.

* Version 0.1.1, released 2006-01-27

Fixed PROCESS-NO-COMPRESS-BLOCK to read from the underlying stream,
rather than the bitstream.  (Thanks to Eric Marsden.)

* Version 0.1, released 2006-01-27

Initial release.
