This file describes the original of the present directory and how it
was modified from the original in the HOL4 repository.  It also
describes how to use the script tests/doit to run tests not currently
included in regression testing.

.....

This directory contains replacements for portions of the
examples/acl2/ directory in the Kananaskis release of HOL4 that has
been obtained as follows.

git clone https://github.com/HOL-Theorem-Prover/HOL.git .

Normal regression testing will certify the books in this directory
(and, recursively, in subdirectories).  To run an additional test, run
the script file, doit, in the tests/ subdirectory -- but first set
environment variables as explained in file .acl2holrc.bash in the
present directory.  That doit script can be run after certifying
appropriate books in the regression; optionally, you can first clean
the books under the present directory or under tests/.

Here is a summary of those replacements.  (The present file,
README-acl2, is new here.)

----------

The script .acl2holrc.bash has been modified so that the user is
required to supply the value of variable ACL2_SRC, e.g., as
/Users/kaufmann/acl2/acl2 .

----------

In tests/gold/, the following changed because prog2$ was previously a
function in ACL2 but it is now a macro.

tests/gold/defund-test.lisp
tests/gold/defund_test.sml

----------

The process of generating a .sml file from a .lisp file includes
transformation to an "essence" version of the .lisp file, which
includes performing macroexpansion and throwing away extra-logical
information such as the rule-classes of a defthm event.  The following
files were updated to get the script tests/.doit to work with ACL2
versions 8.6 and beyond.

lisp/book-essence.lisp
lisp/pkg-alist-to-alist.lisp
lisp/untranslate-file.lisp

tests/inputs/Makefile
tests/inputs/PKGS.lsp
tests/inputs/PKGS.sml
tests/inputs/m1-story.lisp

----------

The script tests/doit has been modified to avoid so-called "round-trip
testing" for axioms.lisp.  That testing would need to be updated in
order to avoid failure with the previous tests/doit.  That script also
puts a file cert_pl_exclude into the tests/results/ directory, to
avoid any attempt at certifying files in that directory.

----------
