#summary Books added after the release of ACL2 Version 3.5, together with partial discussion of changes other than additions.

= Introduction =

The following alphabetical list of books and directories describes
changes since the release of ACL2 Version 3.5.

= List of Books =

critpath.pl:
   Part of an experimental build system that is not yet intended, for
   example, to be capable of running the whole regression

defsort/remove-dups.lisp:
   Minor addition of a duplicate-removing function to defsort

fix-cert/:
   After moving books from one place to another in a filesystem, use
   this library to update the .cert files accordingly without costly
   recertification.

hacking/dynamic-make-event.lisp:
   Low-level support for system hacking; see comment near top of file.
   New, related files: hacking/dynamic-make-event-test.acl2,
   hacking/dynamic-make-event-test.lisp, and
   hacking/dynamic-make-event.acl2.

misc/seqw.lisp:
   New SEQW macro is like seq (see misc/seq.lisp), but collects
   warnings.  See also new, related file misc/seqw-examples.lsp.

serialize/:
   Optimized routines for Serializing ACL2 objects (for any host Lisp
   other than GCL).  Quoting the :doc: "We implement some routines for
   writing arbitrary ACL2 objects to files, and for loading those
   files later."

tools/with-quoted-forms.lisp:
   Useful for computing large :USE hints; see comment at top of file.

unicode/two-nats-measure.lisp:
   Lexicographic order measure for pairs of natural numbers