#summary Tips and Tricks for Using ACL2 Books

= Introduction =

A place for short FAQs related to the ACL2 books with quick answers

== How do I figure out which versions affect a particular symbol? ==

A quick way of answering this question is to issue

{{{
svn diff -r 2000:2053 | grep firstn-chars
}}}

There are more complicated methods, but they're more work.  For more information, see http://code.google.com/p/acl2-books/issues/detail?id=86


== How can I determine which books are currently being certified? ==

The following command can provide that information on some Linux systems.  (There are probably suitable such options for "ps" on most any such system, including MacOS.)

{{{
ps axww
}}}

== How do I use a proxy to download Quicklisp? ==

There are two steps to installing Quicklisp:

(1) You have to procure quicklisp.lisp (typically done via a call of "make"... that is, until "make" breaks).  You can either download the file manually from http://beta.quicklisp.org/quicklisp.lisp, or if you're using curl via the GNUMakefile, you can use curl's -x option.

(2) Second you have to tell quicklisp itself where to get its supporting files.  There are a couple approaches to this.

One is to manually edit the file books/centaur/quicklisp/install.lsp so that it uses the :proxy option:

    (quicklisp-quickstart:install :proxy "http://myproxy.site.com:8080/")

"Only plain HTTP (no SSL) is supported at this time. Proxy authentication is also not yet supported.

You can change the proxy value after initial installation with this:

    (setf (ql-config:config-value "proxy-url") "http://proxy.value.here")

The value is preserved between Quicklisp sessions."
[ http://www.quicklisp.org/beta/faq.html ]

Alternatively, since the value is preserved between sessions via file books/centaur/quicklisp/config/proxy-url.txt, you can just manually edit the file and place your equivalent of the following in it:

{{{
http://myproxy.site.com:8080/

}}}

This also means you can revert your changes to install.lsp.