#labels Phase-Implementation
A few ideas for ways to improve the books

=== Documentation ===

There is always more work to be done on documentation.

Many libraries have no documentation at all.  Even a brief page that just says what the library is, where it's located, and briefly what it provides would be a real service (and a way to learn about what's available).  

Improving the existing documentation by adding examples, links to other materials, clarifying things, etc., would also be valuable.

=== Interoperability ===

Sometimes, libraries have name clashes that make them incompatible with one another.  A hard to achieve (but laudable) initial goal might be to simply include all the (non-workshop) books together.

Beyond that, truly integrating libraries to make them play well together might be a lot of work, but could be valuable.

=== System function guards ===

It would be nice to have additional ACL2 theorem prover functions brought into logic mode and guard-verified.  Some functions that might be nice:

  * output functions like fmt
  * genvar
  * find-first-bad-arg
  * cons-tag-trees
  * strip-branches
  * clausify
  * if-tautologyp
  * expand-some-non-rec-fns (if you'd like a challenge involving mutual-recursion)
  * rewrite-solidify
  * loop-stopperp
  * equal-mod-alist (this one's termination is trivial,  but its guards are undefined)

There may be cases in which a built-in definition needs modification, e.g. by adding guards or changing a null test to an endp test; Matt Kaufmann is interesting in cooperating by incorporating such modifications into the ACL2 sources.

New proofs along these lines can be included in system/top.lisp.  The ACL2 build/maintenance process ensures that all built-in functions that are guard-verified after executing (include-book "system/top" :dir :system) are in fact guard-verified in the normal ACL2 build.
